---
date: 2025-04-07
authors:
  - automas-dev
links:
  - automas.dev: https://automas.dev/
---

# Changing My GitHub Username

It's been a long time coming, but I've finally renamed my GitHub account. Since
I made the account (through my entire undergraduate degree in computer science
and my entire professional life), I've used a not so creative username from my
community college email[^1] that I had at the time. I haven't always been a
super creative person, so when I enrolled at Virginia Tech, I used the same id.

<!-- more -->

## A Quick Detour To GitLab

When I started my undergraduate degree, GitHub private repos were not free for
general use. They were free for student accounts, of which I was, but at some
point early in my undergraduate degree, my account got borked and I never
figured out why. As a result, I was not able to create private repos on GitHub.

I switched to GitLab to work around this and spent several years there. Some of
my older projects still live on there to this day (though I have migrated all of
them to GitHub, most as private repos). I even experimented with a self hosted
instance of GitLab for a very brief period of time. Fast forward to January 7,
2019[^2] and private repos become free on GitHub.

## Why Would I Do This?

Great question. It is a fair point that I have so many repos now that span
across many projects, computers and services I've developed over the years, but
takeing another perspective, this is the perfect time, because I will only keep
growing my repos, and renaming will become more and more tedious or down right
impossible. I also have the additional benefit of a very, very unique username.
GitHub will forward old references to my previous username until it is
registered with a new account. I don't think there is a huge change this will
ever happen, at least in my lifetime.

This just gives me a chance to claim another username in my quest to become the
automas. Sadly, `automas` is already taken, and so `automas.net`, but this gave
me a great change to unify my github username with the website domain. I
registered [automas.dev](https://automas.dev/) to continue this new _brand_.

[^1]: The community college provided each student with an email address starting
      with their 3 (or 2) initials followed by 4 random numbers. The regular
      expression for this format is `[a-z]{2,3}[0-9]{4}`

[^2]: [https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/new-year-new-github/](https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/new-year-new-github/)
